The rest of this document will only talk about Bitcoin for readability purposes, but know that everything applies to Dogecoin as well.


-= Installation =-

Get the bitcoind/dogecoind server program.  This can be done by compiling by source (which is trickier than you would expect), or by downloading a pre-compiled version.  In either case, if you are working with Bitcoin specifically, use Bitcoin Classic instead of Bitcoin Core (because reasons).


-= Setup =-

This tool communicates with the Bitcoin RPC server to create, send, and parse transactions.  Ensure that you have the bitcoind and/or bitcoin-qt programs installed.  Edit the ~/.bitcoin/bitcoin.conf (or Dogecoin equivalent) and set the rpcuser, rpcpassword, rpcport values.  The password will not need to be typed in or remembered by a human, so this should be very long and complex (i.e.: 25 alphanumeric characters OR MORE).

This tool also requires the server to maintain a transaction index.  This not the default mode.  If you've never run it on this machine before, then you can start it with:

   bitcoind -daemon -txindex

Otherwise, if you have part (or all) of the blockchain downloaded, you will need to run it with the following arguments:

   bitcoind -daemon -txindex -rescan

The "-rescan" option is needed to build the transaction index from scratch.  This is a CPU-intensive operation that may take 24 - 48 hours (!).  Unfortunately, there is no way around this.


Regardless of what you do above, restarting the server in the future should be done with:

   bitcoind -daemon -txindex

Note that "-rescan" is not necessary, and in fact, should NOT be used after the initial setup.  From this point on, because the transaction index already exists, the server will start up in a matter of seconds or minutes.

IMPORTANT: if you also run the GUI client, you MUST run it with the "-txindex" option.  Otherwise, it will prompt you to rescan the blockchain, which DESTROYS the transaction index (which, as noted above, takes 24 - 48 hours to rebuild).


Finally, to verify that setup is complete, run the bitcoin-cli tool and check that the latest block number has been obtained:

   bitcoin-cli getblockcount

Wait patiently until the entire blockchain is downloaded and synchronized.  This can take 1-2 days to complete as well.  Once complete, see the README.txt file to see examples on how to publish and extract files.
